hey everybody I'm Joe Hudson and today I
want to talk about measuring
transformation how do you measure your
progress in transformation and before I
even start to talk about that some
people will use a measurement tool to
beat themselves up I'm not there yet I
haven't done it yet I'm not high enough
yet I incredibly counterproductive so if
you're going to use a measurement tool
it's more of like a map and it is not
the territory right so it's a map it's
not you're not actually driving on the
road you're looking at a map that's the
most important thing about using any
kind of measurements tool so the way I
like to measure it is to say we have
three brains one is a prefrontal cortex
and that's your cognitive ability that's
your Human Side then you have the
emotional component which is the meleon
thing where you have those the feelings
and so some people would call that the
heart and then you have some people
would call the gut which is The
Reptilian Brain which is all nervous
system it's more like in the amydala you
want to measure how the progress is in
each as far as measuring trans
transformational progress in the head so
you can look at your sense of time and
you can look at your sense of self and
how they develop over time and the more
Universal that they become the further
along on the path you are so let me give
you a direct understanding of this
little kid 2 years old and you say hey
your birthday is in 8 months they don't
get excited but when you're like 50
years old and you're like retirement in
8 months you're like oh you can feel
that that excitement what happens is
when you're younger you can't see time
in long periods you see it in you get
excited in a week or two and then as you
get older you can get excited and think
about and plan for stuff that is 2 3 4
years out the next stage would be like
generational oh I'm doing something
today for my grandkids and then at some
point the thing implodes on itself or
seemingly implodes on itself and there's
just the present similarly the same
thing happens with the sense of self ask
a little kid we know this cognitively
say hey what do you want for Christmas
they're going to say I want a GI Joe
with a Kung Fu grip and what does Mom
want for Christmas GI Joe with a Kung Fu
grip and what does dad want GI Joe with
a Kung Fu Grip but as they get a little
older they can see oh I want a GI Joe
with a Kung Fu grip and dad wants a tie
and Mom wants a Tesla and they can see
the difference and so that sense of self
starts changing sense of self that is me
to family to community to tribe to
nation and then it continues to grow
into Humanity
and they contines to grow into like the
Earth right like oh I see myself as part
of this entire ecosystem and to take
care of myself is to take care of the
ecosystem or I see myself as as this
family and to take care of the family is
a way to take care of myself but at some
point again it implodes on you and all
of a sudden you see yourself as
everything everything is you and you are
everything and or nothing and so the the
sense of self becomes
Universal on the emotional side of
things are on the mamelon side of things
are on the Heart level the way that you
mark progress is through emotional
fluidity and emotional fluidity
basically means that you can feel what
arises in a non reactionary way Express
what arises in a non- reactionary way no
matter what it is so you can feel the
pain of life you can feel the sadness of
life you can feel the fear the joy the
excitement and the result of that the
symptom of that is a lot more joy one of
the same that I have is that Joy is the
matriarch of a family of emotions and
she won't come into a house where her
children aren't welcome and so I work
with a ton of people where I see they've
been holding on they've repressed a lot
of anger they move that anger and boom
they feel so much more joy or they've
repressed a lot of sadness they move the
sadness boom they feel a lot more joy
and so that allowing all those emotional
experiences to happen is that Mark of of
the heart opening up the interesting
thing that happens is that as you start
feeling all these things at the
beginning you're like what do you mean I
I can enjoy feeling sadness what do you
mean I can enjoy feeling fear and the
answer is yes and because you're not
resisting them they actually feel
different and a lot of the pain of the
of the emotional fluidity at first is
your resistance to the emotions it it
becomes less like there sadness and
there's fear and there's excitement and
it becomes far more like aspects of a
diamond with like slightly different
tonalities to it marking the
transformational process in The
Reptilian Brain or the nervous system
brain is All About Your Capacity to en
enjoy pleasure Your Capacity to allow
pleasure in one of the greatest
definitions I've ever heard for pleasure
is the awareness of energy moving in
your body I would say that it's more
awareness of Sensations in your body
without resistance and the more pleasure
that we can feel feel the more that our
nervous system thinks it's safe if we
are safe then naturally we take pleasure
in being alive if you think about that
moment when you were like just looking
over the sunset or the wind was hitting
you in that right way or you were in
that great conversation you felt deeply
connected there's this experience of
safety where you're not looking for the
other foot to fall you're not looking
for the punch in the face the attack
that's coming you're not thinking you're
going to get in trouble you're just like
in this place of enjoyment and pleasure
pleasure pleasure like anything is
something that you learn to to to grow
into as you learn to accept pleasure as
you learn to feel the sensations in your
body then your ability to have pleasure
grows and grows and grows and it doesn't
really ever end there's not like oh now
I have maximum pleasure that's it's like
not how it works and I don't mean
pleasure like okay now I'm going to go
like have a massage and do yoga I mean
like the pleasure of Right Here and Now
the pleasure of a breath
in so to sum it up it's really important
not to beat yourself up through the
measurement process the measurement
process is more of a map there's no rush
to get anywhere is you're not going to
be a better person on the other side
actually on the other side the idea of
Better or Worse goes away and the idea
of like a you that's there to be
measured starts to fade away as well but
if you are measuring yourself the three
ways to do it that I highly recommend is
from the human brain the cognitive
prefrontal cortex the heart the
emotional part of your body and through
the gut all right thank you very much
for watching if you are interested
you're welcome to subscribe and or just
tell us what you want to hear about and
that'll give me good things to create
content on